Ilariae/multigov (#114)
wormhole-foundation/wormhole-docs: build/contract-integrations/multigov/deployment.md

1. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   forge install
   ```

2. Set up environment variables:
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```
   Edit `.env` with your specific [configuration](/docs/build/contract-integrations/multigov/deployment/#configuration){target=\_blank}

3. Compile contracts:
   ```bash
   forge build
   ```

4. Deploy contracts (example for Sepolia testnet): <!-- would be nice to cover the contracts before the deployment step -->

    For hub chains:
    ```bash
    forge script script/DeployHubContractsSepolia.s.sol --rpc-url $SEPOLIA_RPC_URL --broadcast
    ```

    For spoke chains (e.g., Optimism Sepolia):
    ```bash
    forge script script/DeploySpokeContractsOptimismSepolia.s.sol --rpc-url $OPTIMISM_SEPOLIA_RPC_URL --broadcast
    ```

## Configuration

When deploying MultiGov, several key parameters need to be set. Here are the most important configuration points:

### Hub Governor Key Parameters

- `initialVotingDelay` ++"uint256"++ - the delay measured in seconds before voting on a proposal begins. For example, `86400` is one day
- `initialProposalThreshold`  ++"uint256"++ - the number of tokens needed to create a proposal

> - `initialQuorum` ++"uint256"++ - the minimum number of votes needed for a proposal to be successful, measured in votes
> - `initialVoteWeightWindow` ++"uint256"++ - a window where the minimum checkpointed voting weight is taken for a given address. The window ends at the vote start for a proposal and begins at the vote start minus the vote weight window. Measured in seconds, e.g., `86400` is one day

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `initialQuorum` ++"uint256"++ - the minimum number of votes needed for a proposal to be successful
- `initialVoteWeightWindow` ++"uint256"++ - a window where the minimum checkpointed voting weight is taken for a given address. The window ends at the vote start for a proposal and begins at the vote start minus the vote weight window. The voting window is measured in seconds, e.g., `86400` is one day
```

    !!! note
        This helps mitigate cross-chain double voting.

### Hub Proposal Extender Key Parameters

> - `extensionDuration` ++"uint256"++ - the amount of time for which target proposals will be extended. Measured in seconds, for example, `10800` is three hours
> - `minimumExtensionDuration` ++"uint256"++ - lower limit for extension duration. Measured in seconds, e.g., `3600` is one hour

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `extensionDuration` ++"uint256"++ - the amount of time, in seconds, for which target proposals will be extended. For example, `10800` is three hours
- `minimumExtensionDuration` ++"uint256"++ - lower time limit, in seconds, for extension duration. For example, `3600` is one hour
```

Reviewer: I just think the measured in seconds part should be baked into the definition 🤷‍♀️

> #### Spoke Vote Aggregator Key Parameters

Reviewer: This looks like it should be an H3 - please double check

> - `initialVoteWindow` ++"uint256"++ - the moving window for vote weight checkpoints. These checkpoints are taken whenever an address that is delegating sends or receives tokens. Measured in seconds, e.g., `86400` is one day

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `initialVoteWindow` ++"uint256"++ - the moving window in seconds for vote weight checkpoints. These checkpoints are taken whenever an address that is delegating sends or receives tokens. For example, `86400` is one day
```

    !!! note
        This is crucial for mitigating cross-chain double voting

> ### Hub Evm Spoke Vote Aggregator Key Parameters
> - `maxQueryTimestampOffset` ++"uint256"++ - the max timestamp difference between the requested target time in the query and the current block time on the hub. Measured in seconds, e.g., `1800` is 30 minutes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Hub Evm Spoke Vote Aggregator Key Parameters

- `maxQueryTimestampOffset` ++"uint256"++ - the max timestamp difference, in seconds, between the requested target time in the query and the current block time on the hub. For example, `1800` is 30 minutes
```

---
title: MultiGov Deployment
description: Set up and deploy MultiGov locally with step-by-step instructions for configuring, compiling, and deploying smart contracts across chains.
---

# Deployment 

## Development Setup
<!-- check out the getting started page first -->
For developers looking to set up a local MultiGov environment:

1. Install prerequisites:
    - [Foundry](https://book.getfoundry.sh/getting-started/installation){target=\_blank}
    - [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads){target=\_blank}
   
2. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone [MultiGov Repository URL]
   cd evm # for evm testing/deploying
   ```

3. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   forge install
   ```

4. Set up environment variables:
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```
   Edit `.env` with your specific [configuration](/docs/build/multigov/deployment/#configuration){target=\_blank}

5. Compile contracts:
   ```bash
   forge build
   ```

> 6. Deploy contracts (example for Sepolia testnet):

Author: i'll see what I can do once I check the repo
